---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Are You Asking Smart Questions?"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-08
published: true
labels:
  - Questions
  - Answers
  - StackOverflow
---


We are told from a young age that there is no such thing as a stupid question. Whether that is true or not there is a way to ask "smart” questions. In his
essay, “How to ask questions the smart way”, Eric Raymond shows a strategy on how you and I can form our own smart questions.

## What goes into asking a "smart" question?

First and foremost the effort that you put forth to solve your own question prior to asking it is displayed in the contents of the question itself. Before you ask a
question you should have exhausted all of your resources trying to solve it first. That is through google, textbooks, and any other resources you have access to. After
all of those options leave you with no answer then that’s when you should ask a question. The question that is formed is an intelligent one that shows that you have
learned some things along your journey to finding an answer but just aren't able to get over that hump. In the post for your question you can also explain what
research you have already done to get to the point that you had to ask the question to the public and that shows that you aren't asking for a handout from your peers.
If you are lazy and just post your question without doing your due diligence it will show in the way you ask your question as well as you not providing any proof that
you have attempted to solve your own question prior to asking. Personally, I believe it would be disrespectful to the community to ask a question before extensively
trying to find an answer myself. It shows that you want to reach your end goal without putting in any work.

Another one of the points made in the essay is choosing where you ask your question. Eric Raymond explains that you should be aware that you don't  “post your question
to a form where it’s off topic” as well as not to “post a very elementary question to a form where advanced technical questions are expected, or vice-versa”. This
would show that you have no care in the world to even post under the topic relevant to your question, which already gives off the impression that you have not
attempted your own question. Stack Overflow in itself is a great way to find the answer you are looking for without having to post your question to the forums. More
times than not the question you need answered is also a question that someone in the past also needed answered.

The gist of what this essay is trying to teach us as newbies in this tech world or maybe just newbies to Stack Overflow is that “smart questions” get “smart answers”
and “not smart questions” get you “not smart answers”. If someone in the community can sense that you have not put forth any effort to answer your own question then
they will simply answer with a “troll” answer, in other words they will answer your question but not with the answer. If you showcase the effort that you put in to
find the answer to your question before you posted your question then those in the community will be more compelled to answer your question for you.


## What is a smart question?

For the “smart” question I found a user that posted the question “How do I check out a remote Git branch?”. The reason I would consider this a “smart” question is
because it checks most boxes that Eric Raymond had mentioned in his essay. To add to this question the user added a sufficient amount of insight to what he was trying
to figure out. He stated that “Somebody pushed a branch called test with git push origin test to a shared repository. I can see the branch with git branch -r. How do I
check out the remote test branch?” which allows those trying to answer the question begin to put the pieces together. The description was very clear which allows for a
more thorough explanation. This user also added that they “Tried the following: git checkout test, which does nothing, git checkout origin/test gives * (no branch)”.
This shows that the user that posted this question has made some attempts at trying to find a solution on their own and even said exactly what they had tried which
could help those trying to answer the question as well. Showing what they already tried may narrow down the possible solutions for anyone trying to solve the problem.
The tags that were associated with this question were very specific and related to the question. The question is tagged with “git”, “git-checkout”, and “remote
branch”. The tags being closely associated with the question being asked is imperative because it will allow those with expertise in that topic to answer the question.
The answer for this question is a very thorough answer. The user that answered the question showed an answer that was based on the most recent version of Git, Git
2.23. They began with explaining a solution for the case in which there is “one remote” and then went on to display a solution for “multiple remotes”. And in the event
that neither of those solutions would solve the problem, this user added a possible solution if this was “prior to Git 2.23”. The answer must have been very helpful to
many users as it currently has 10,933 upvotes.

Here is a link to a "Smart" Question On [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1783405/how-do-i-check-out-a-remote-git-branch).

## What is not smart question?

My choice for a “not smart question” has a subject line that goes “System.out.println(); Implementation”. Now there are a handful of things that stick out to me with
this post that make it a “not smart question”. First, the subject line does not give enough information and seems too general to pull in an expert to answer the
question. The description for the post states, “Can anyone here tell me how System.out.println() is implemented? I have tried many sites but didn't get any
satisfactory answer.”. My first instinct was that this user had not even attempted to find a solution prior to posting the question. I immediately went on to google
and entered “How System.out.println() is implemented” and I found that the first link leads to a great article with a solution. And if that had not helped, the second
link was also very helpful in my opinion, and so was every other link on the first page of google results. It only took me a few minutes to search, read and come to my
own answer for this question which I assume is less time than it took this user to post the question and wait for a response. I believe those within the community
believe this was also a “not smart” question because it currently has 2 down votes. Now, this question currently has 1 answer but it is a quality answer. The user that
answered this question gave a thorough breakdown of the question by explaining that “System is a final class” and that “out is object of PrintStream class inside
system” as well as “println() is a method of PrintStream”. This user also provided a link, along with their answer, for more information to refer to regarding the
topic.

Here is a link to a "not smart" question on [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31113981/system-out-println-implementation).

## Conclusion

In conclusion, there is a “smart” way to ask questions on Stack Overflow and there are also “not smart” ways to ask questions. The article written by Eric Raymond has
been very informative and will allow me to navigate through Stack Overflow the proper way.

